I’m sure you are all wondering.
You need the copyright owner’s permission
when you use someone else’s work,
such as a cartoon, animation, or photograph.
Of course, we know about that too.
We don’t do anything careless, like using copyrighted work,
we find online!
Yes. If you use manga or anime scenes, etc., directly on your
poster, you violate the reproduction right.
Therefore, if you want to use them on a poster,
you must obtain the copyright owner’s permission.
Even in the case of famous works, such as famous cartoons,
you may get permission depending on the intentions of the
copyright owner and the intended use of the work.
The creators of the work may be happy that you are using it.
You should contact the copyright owner
if you want to use the work.
For a comic book, do we have to contact the author directly?
As a comic book enthusiast, let me explain.
For creators who publish their work online, that is the way to go.
In the case of publications such as manga published in magazines,
the publisher is often the point of contact.
The publisher’s website will list the contact information for
copyright inquiries.
The Agency for Cultural Affairs’
“How to Use Copyrighted Works Properly” page
also provides contact information for various copyright-related
organizations, so checking there is a good idea.
What should we do when we do not copy scenes from a manga or
anime as is,
but rather someone good at illustrating draws new illustrations
based on the scenes?
Even if someone is good at hand-drawn illustrations,
if the work is based on the work of another and
is similar enough to the original work
that the essential characteristics of the expression of
the original work can be directly perceived from the work,
the copyright owner’s permission is necessary.
Is it “similar to the extent that the essential characteristics of
the expression are directly perceived”?
An act that relies on an existing work and expresses it in a new
and creative way by making changes
and the like while maintaining the identity of the essential
characteristics of the expression is considered an “adaptation.”
Since the copyright owner has the exclusive right to adapt
the work, permission is required.
What about using only swords or costumes?
If the props and costumes are not so distinctive and are only
similar to the extent that there are many similar expressions,
they are unlikely to be
“essential characteristics of the expression”
and may not be a problem from a copyright perspective.
However, some publishers think permission is required for use
because “if the dialogue or props remind the viewer of the
cartoon, there is a possibility that the viewer may misinterpret
the relationship with the cartoon.”
What are your thoughts on using the university’s mascot
character or emblem?
Since the school festival is a university event,
it’s okay to use them, right?
In most cases, universities have policies, regulations, and visual
identities
for university mascot characters and emblems, and they are in
operation.
Checking the university’s rules or consulting with the relevant
department in charge, for advice would be a good idea.
Since it is for a school festival, you can probably get permission
to use them. Still, you might get a warning if you use them in a
way that lowers the dignity of the university.
Today, in particular, we see a wide variety of copyrighted works
of others on the Internet.
Unfortunately, a number of these are infringing on copyrights.
Digital technology has made it easy to obtain the copyrighted
works of others,
but be sure to use them with caution.
Yes, understood!